---
tags:
  - Arrays
  - Hard
  - Searching
---

# 41. First Missing Positive

[TOC]

Given an unsorted integer array nums, return the smallest missing positive integer.

You must implement an algorithm that runs in $O(n)$ time and uses constant extra space.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [1,2,0]
Output: 3
Explanation: The numbers in the range [1,2] are all in the array.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [3,4,-1,1]
Output: 2
Explanation: 1 is in the array but 2 is missing.
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [7,8,9,11,12]
Output: 1
Explanation: The smallest positive integer 1 is missing.
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= nums.length <= 10^5`
* `-2^31 <= nums[i] <= 2^31 - 1`
```

## Problem Analysis

Since the problem requires $O(n)$ complexity we cannot use sorting. 

Since you do not want to consider negative numbers they can be replaced by 0.

## Solutions

### Using Sorting

OK the slow solution actually uses sorting. You first sort the array and then you go through the numbers and check if the current number is present in the array starting with the number 1. If its present the increment the current traversal. In the end the current traversal will point to the missing number.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="First Missing Positive.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/41-FirstMissingPositive/FirstMissingPositiveSorting.js"
    `

Time complexity is $O(nlogn)$ because of the sorting.

### Using Indexing

The idea is to use the index of the array to store the value of the number in the array. For example, if the input array is `[3, 4, -1, 1]`, we can use the index 0 to store 1, index 1 to store 2, index 2 to store 3 and so on.

To do this, we need to first separate the positive numbers from the negative numbers. Then, for each positive number, we use its value as the index to store its corresponding value in the array.

After separating the positive numbers and rearranging the array, the first missing positive number will be the first position in the array that does not contain its corresponding value.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="First Missing Positive.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/41-FirstMissingPositive/FirstMissingPositiveIndexing.js"
    `

Time complexity is $O(n)$ and uses constant extra space.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/)
