---
tags:
  - Recursion
  - Medium
  - Strings
---

# 22. Generate Parentheses

[TOC]

Given n pairs of parentheses, write a function to generate all combinations of well-formed parentheses.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: n = 3
Output: ["((()))","(()())","(())()","()(())","()()()"]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: n = 1
Output: ["()"]
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= n <= 8`
```

## Problem Analysis

Note that each left parenthesis is to be associated with a right one. So we can think of a way to keeping track of the number of left and right parentheses that we have created so far. If we run out of left parentheses we have to add right parentheses.

Because we need to generate permutations we can use recursion passing down the current left and right amount of parenthesis. If the number of left and right parentheses are equal, the current combination is complete and we push the accumulated string to the result.

## Solutions

### Using Brute Force

This function generates all possible combinations of n pairs of parentheses using a recursive approach, and then filters the result to only include well-formed combinations. It does this by keeping track of the balance of left and right parentheses and returning false if the balance becomes negative (i.e., there are more right parentheses than left). If the balance is 0 at the end, the combination is considered well-formed and it is included in the result.

??? Show "Solution using Brute Force"
`js title="GenerateParentheses.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/22-GenerateParentheses/GenerateParenthesesBrute.js"
    `

This brute force approach has a time complexity of $O(2^n)$, since there are 2^n possible combinations of parentheses. This can be inefficient for large values of n. For example, if n is 10, there are 1024 possible combinations, which can take a long time to generate and filter. In contrast, the recursive solution I provided earlier has a time complexity of $O(4^n / sqrt(n))$, which is much more efficient for large values of n.

### Optimal

This function generates all combinations of well-formed parentheses using a recursive approach. It keeps track of the number of left and right parentheses that have been added to the current combination. It adds a left parenthesis if the maximum number has not been reached, and it adds a right parenthesis if it is safe to do so (i.e., there are more left parentheses than right). When the number of left and right parentheses is equal to n, the current combination is complete and it is added to the result.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="GenerateParentheses.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/22-GenerateParentheses/GenerateParentheses.js"
    `

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/)
