---
tags:
  - LinkedLists
  - Hard
  - Heaps
---

# 23. Merge k Sorted Lists

[TOC]

You are given the heads of two sorted linked lists list1 and list2.

Merge the two lists in a one sorted list. The list should be made by splicing together the nodes of the first two lists.

Return the head of the merged linked list.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: lists = [[1,4,5],[1,3,4],[2,6]]
Output: [1,1,2,3,4,4,5,6]
Explanation: The linked-lists are:
[
  1->4->5,
  1->3->4,
  2->6
]
merging them into one sorted list:
1->1->2->3->4->4->5->6
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: lists = []
Output: []
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: lists = [[]]
Output: []
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `k == lists.length`
* `0 <= k <= 10^4`
* `0 <= lists[i].length <= 500`
* `-10^4 <= lists[i][j] <= 10^4`
* lists[i] is sorted in ascending order.
```

## Problem Analysis

We can iterate over the lists of lists and take the smallest element and place it into the result. We can improve the last algorithm by using a min-heap instead of a list of pointers.

We can also consider using divide and conquer and leverage a previously solved problem for Merging Two Sorted Lists but now for k Lists. We merge every pair `k` lists into `k/2` lists, Then again into `k/4` lists until `k=0` which we just return the result.

## Solutions

### Using Divide and Conquer

This function uses a divide and conquer approach to merge the linked lists. It recursively divides the input array into two halves and merges the linked lists in each half. Then, it merges the two halves using the mergeTwoLists function that I provided earlier.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="MergeKSortedLists.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/23-MergeKLists/MergeKListsDivide.js"
    `

### Using a Heap

The `mergeKLists` function takes an array of sorted linked lists as input and returns a single sorted linked list that is the result of merging all of the input lists.

It does this by using a min heap to store the heads of the linked lists. The min heap is used to efficiently find the smallest element among all of the linked lists.

The function starts by adding the heads of all of the non-empty linked lists to the min heap. Then, it repeatedly removes the smallest element from the min heap and adds it to the result linked list. If the removed element has a next node, that node is added to the min heap as well. This process continues until the min heap is empty.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="MergeKSortedLists.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/23-MergeKLists/MergeKListsHeap.js"
    `

The time complexity of this solution is $O(n * log k)$, where n is the total number of nodes in all of the linked lists and k is the number of linked lists. This is because each node is added to and removed from the min heap once, and the time complexity of these operations is $O(log k)$ due to the use of a min heap.

The space complexity is $O(k)$, since the min heap stores at most k elements at any given time.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-k-sorted-lists/)
