---
tags:
  - LinkedLists
  - Medium
---

# 24. Swap Nodes in Pairs

[TOC]

Given a linked list, swap every two adjacent nodes and return its head. You must solve the problem without modifying the values in the list's nodes (i.e., only nodes themselves may be changed.)

**Example 1:**

```
Input: head = [1,2,3,4]
Output: [2,1,4,3]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: head = []
Output: []
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: head = [1]
Output: [1]
```

**Constraints:**

```
* The number of nodes in the list is in the range `[0, 100]`
* `0 <= Node.val <= 100`
```

## Problem Analysis

For returning the linked list result you can use a dummy node to hold the result.

As both linked lists are sorted already, you can iterate over both and add the smallest one on the result list. Then append the largest remaining list to the result.

Its better if you check if the current list node pointers are not null using `while (list1 && list2)` instead of `while (list1.next && list2.next)`.

In order to swap pairwise pointers in the list, you need to keep track of at least three pointers: the previous pointer, the current pointer and the subsequent pointer. Once the pairwise swap is done you advance those pointers by one point.

## Solutions

### Nominal

The nominal starts by checking for the edge case where the linked list is empty. If the list is empty, the function simply returns `null`.

Next, the function initializes three variables: `prev, p1, and p2. prev` is a pointer to the node before the current pair of nodes being swapped. `p1` and `p2` are pointers to the current and next nodes, respectively.

The function then enters a loop that continues until `p2`1. is null, which indicates the end of the list. In each iteration of the loop, the function does the following:

1. If prev is null, which indicates that the current pair of nodes is at the start of the list, the function updates the head of the list to be p2.
2. Otherwise, the function updates the next pointer of prev to point to p2.
3. The function then updates the next pointer of p1 to point to the node after p2.
4. The function updates the next pointer of p2 to point to p1.
5. The function updates prev to be p1.
6. The function updates p1 and p2 to be the next pair of nodes in the list.

Finally, the function returns the head of the modified list.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="SwapNodesInPairs.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/24-SwapNodesInPairs/SwapNodesInPairs.js"
    `

Time complexity is $O(n+m)$ because it could touch all elements of both lists.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/swap-nodes-in-pairs/)
