---
tags:
  - LinkedLists
  - Hard
---

# 25. Reverse Nodes in k-Group

[TOC]

Given the head of a linked list, reverse the nodes of the list k at a time, and return the modified list.

k is a positive integer and is less than or equal to the length of the linked list. If the number of nodes is not a multiple of k then left-out nodes, in the end, should remain as it is.

You may not alter the values in the list's nodes, only nodes themselves may be changed.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: head = [1,2,3,4,5], k = 2
Output: [2,1,4,3,5]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: head = [1,2,3,4,5], k = 3
Output: [3,2,1,4,5]
```

**Constraints:**

```
* The number of nodes in the list is `n`.
* `1 <= k <= n <= 5000`
* `0 <= Node.val <= 1000`
```

## Problem Analysis

For returning the linked list result you can use a dummy node to hold the result.

As both linked lists are sorted already, you can iterate over both and add the smallest one on the result list. Then append the largest remaining list to the result.

Its better if you check if the current list node pointers are not null using `while (list1 && list2)` instead of `while (list1.next && list2.next)`.

In order to swap k-group pointers in the list, you need to keep track of at least three pointers: the previous pointer, the current pointer and the subsequent pointer. Once each reverse is done you advance those pointers by one point.

## Solutions

### Nominal

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="ReverseNodesInKGroup.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/25-ReverseNodesInKGroup/ReverseNodesInKGroup.js"
    `

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-nodes-in-k-group/)
