---
tags:
  - Arrays
  - Easy
---

# 26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array

[TOC]

Given an integer array nums sorted in non-decreasing order, remove the duplicates in-place such that each unique element appears only once. The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.

Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array nums. More formally, if there are k elements after removing the duplicates, then the first k elements of nums should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first k elements.

Return k after placing the final result in the first k slots of nums.

Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with $O(1)$ extra memory.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [1,1,2]
Output: 2, nums = [1,2,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,2,3,4,_,_,_,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 10^4`
* `-100 <= nums[i] <= 100`
* ums is sorted in non-decreasing order.
```

## Problem Analysis

Since the array is sorted then subsequent duplicate elements are next to each other.

Since we are returning the number of unique elements in the array we might as well keep a pointer to the last element of the de-duplicated array. With this in mind, we can get a good idea on how to solve this problem efficiently.

## Solutions `

### Two Pointers

This function works by iterating through the array and keeping track of the position of the current unique element. Whenever it encounters a new unique element, it updates the position of the unique element and copies the element to that position.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray.js"
--8<-- "solutions/26-RemoveDuplicatesSortedArray/RemoveDuplicatesSortedArrayTwoPointers.js"

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/description/)
