---
tags:
  - Arrays
  - Easy
---

# 27. Remove Element

[TOC]

Given an integer array nums and an integer val, remove all occurrences of val in nums in-place. The relative order of the elements may be changed.

Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array nums. More formally, if there are k elements after removing the duplicates, then the first k elements of nums should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first k elements.

Return k after placing the final result in the first k slots of nums.

Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with $O(1)$ extra memory.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3
Output: 2, nums = [2,2,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 0, 1, 3, and 4.
Note that the five elements can be returned in any order.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `0 <= nums.length <= 100`
* `0 <= nums[i] <= 50`
* `0 <= val <= 100`
```

## Problem Analysis

This is similar to the previous example.

Since we are returning the number of remaining elements, the implementation will just overlap the target element with the next one on the array and reduce the `nums.length` by 1.

## Solutions `

### Two Pointers

This function works by iterating through the array and removing any elements that match the given value. It does this by replacing the element with the last element in the array and decrementing the array length.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="RemoveElement.js"
--8<-- "solutions/27-RemoveElement/RemoveRemoveElementTwoPointers.js"

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-element/)
