---
tags:
  - Strings
  - Permutations
  - Hard
---

# 30. Substring with Concatenation of All Words

[TOC]

You are given a string s and an array of strings words. All the strings of words are of the same length.

A concatenated substring in s is a substring that contains all the strings of any permutation of words concatenated.

For example, if `words = ["ab","cd","ef"]`, then `"abcdef", "abefcd", "cdabef", "cdefab", "efabcd", and "efcdab"` are all concatenated strings. `"acdbef"` is not a concatenated substring because it is not the concatenation of any permutation of words.
Return the starting indices of all the concatenated substrings in s. You can return the answer in any order.



**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "barfoothefoobarman", words = ["foo","bar"]
Output: [0,9]
Explanation: Since words.length == 2 and words[i].length == 3, the concatenated substring has to be of length 6.
The substring starting at 0 is "barfoo". It is the concatenation of ["bar","foo"] which is a permutation of words.
The substring starting at 9 is "foobar". It is the concatenation of ["foo","bar"] which is a permutation of words.
The output order does not matter. Returning [9,0] is fine too.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "wordgoodgoodgoodbestword", words = ["word","good","best","word"]
Output: []
Explanation: Since words.length == 4 and words[i].length == 4, the concatenated substring has to be of length 16.
There is no substring of length 16 is s that is equal to the concatenation of any permutation of words.
We return an empty array.
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= s.length <= 10^4`
* `1 <= words.length <= 5000`
* `1 <= words[i].length <= 30`
* `s and words[i]` consist of lowercase English letters.


## Problem Analysis

## Solutions `

### Brute Force

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="DivideTwoIntegers.js"
--8<-- "solutions/29-DivideTwoIntegers/DivideTwoIntegers.js"

This algorithm still has a time complexity of `O(n)` where n is the number of bits in the dividend, so it may not be significantly faster for very large dividends.

### Brute Force

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="DivideTwoIntegers.js"
--8<-- "solutions/29-DivideTwoIntegers/DivideTwoIntegers.js"

The time complexity of the findConcatenatedSubstrings function is $O(n * m)$, where n is the length of the string s and m is the length of the array words. This is because the function loops through the string s and for each iteration it calls the function isConcatenated, which has a time complexity of $O(m)$.

The space complexity of the findConcatenatedSubstrings function is $O(1)$, since it does not allocate any additional space beyond a few constants. The space complexity of the isConcatenated function is $O(m)$, since it creates a copy of the array words.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/substring-with-concatenation-of-all-words/description/)
