---
tags:
  - Permutations
  - Medium
---

# 31. Next Permutation

[TOC]

A permutation of an array of integers is an arrangement of its members into a sequence or linear order.

For example, for `arr = [1,2,3]`, the following are all the permutations of arr: `[1,2,3], [1,3,2], [2, 1, 3], [2, 3, 1], [3,1,2], [3,2,1]`.
The next permutation of an array of integers is the next lexicographically greater permutation of its integer. More formally, if all the permutations of the array are sorted in one container according to their lexicographical order, then the next permutation of that array is the permutation that follows it in the sorted container. If such arrangement is not possible, the array must be rearranged as the lowest possible order (i.e., sorted in ascending order).

For example, the next permutation of `arr = [1,2,3] is [1,3,2]`.
Similarly, the next permutation of `arr = [2,3,1] is [3,1,2]`.
While the next permutation of `arr = [3,2,1] is [1,2,3]` because `[3,2,1]` does not have a lexicographical larger rearrangement.
Given an array of integers nums, find the next permutation of nums.

The replacement must be in place and use only constant extra memory.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [1,2,3]
Output: [1,3,2]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [3,2,1]
Output: [1,2,3]
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [1,1,5]
Output: [1,5,1]
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
* `0 <= nums[i] <= 100`
```

## Problem Analysis

An obvious first solution is to calculate all the permutations of this sequence and take the next one. This is the brute force option.

Notice that the next permutation of a sequence always swaps the first number at index j that is larger than the one at index i. So `nums[i] < nums[j]`.

After that swap, the next permutation of the sequence needs to be sorted in ascending order so that it is the smallest permutation. This is the most efficient option.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

With this solution, we first generate all possible permutations of the given array and find out the permutation which is just larger than the given one. But this one will be a very naive approach, since it requires us to find out every possible permutation which will take really long time and the implementation is complex. Thus, this approach is not acceptable at all. Hence, we move on directly to the correct approach.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="NextPermutation.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/31-NextPermutation/NextPermutationBrute.js"
    `

Time complexity : `O(n!)`. Total possible permutations is `n!`.
Space complexity : `O(n)`. Since an array will be used to store the permutations.

### Single Pass

In the optimized solution observer that for any given sequence that is in descending order, no next larger permutation is possible. In that case we return the reverse permutation.

Next for any other case we want to create the permutation just larger than the current one. Therefore, we need to replace the number `a[i−1]` with the number which is just larger than itself among the numbers lying to its right section, say `a[j]`.

We swap the numbers `a[i−1]` and `a[j]`. We now have the correct number at index `i−1`. But still the current permutation isn't the permutation that we are looking for. We need the smallest permutation that can be formed by using the numbers only to the right of `a[i−1]`. Therefore, we need to place those numbers in ascending order to get their smallest permutation.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="NextPermutation.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/31-NextPermutation/NextPermutationSinglePass.js"
    `
Time complexity : `O(n)`. In worst case, only two scans of the whole array are needed.
Space complexity : `O(1)`. No extra space is used. In place replacements are done.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/next-permutation)
