---
tags:
  - Searching
  - Easy
  - Arrays
---

# 35. Search Insert Position

[TOC]

Given a sorted array of distinct integers and a target value, return the index if the target is found. If not, return the index where it would be if it were inserted in order.

You must write an algorithm with O(log n) runtime complexity.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 5
Output: 2
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 2
Output: 1
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 7
Output: 4
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= nums.length <= 10^4`
* `-10^4 <= nums[i] <= 10^4`
* `nums` contains distinct values sorted in ascending order.
* `-10^4 <= target <= 10^4`

## Problem Analysis

The straightforward solution is to use linear search but that would be $O(n)$.

Since the array is sorted initially we can use binary search with a slight modification to return the inserted index if the number is not present in the array.

## Solutions

### With Binary Search

This function uses a binary search algorithm to find the target or the index where the target should be inserted in the given array. It starts by initializing two pointers, left and right, to the first and last indices of the array, respectively. In each iteration, it finds the middle index of the current subarray and compares the element at that index with the target. If they match, it returns the index. Otherwise, it determines which half of the array the target is likely to be in based on the relative order of the middle element and the target, and updates the pointers accordingly. If the target is not found in the array, the function returns the left pointer, that should be the index where the target should be inserted.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="SearchInsert.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/35-SearchInsert/SearchInsertBinarySearch.js"
    `

The time complexity of this function is $O(log n)$ and the space complexity is $O(1)$.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-insert-position/)
