---
tags:
  - Medium
  - Strings
---

# 38. Count and Say

[TOC]

The count-and-say sequence is a sequence of digit strings defined by the recursive formula:

`countAndSay(1) = "1"`
`countAndSay(n)` is the way you would "say" the digit string from `countAndSay(n-1)`, which is then converted into a different digit string.
To determine how you "say" a digit string, split it into the minimal number of substrings such that each substring contains exactly one unique digit. Then for each substring, say the number of digits, then say the digit. Finally, concatenate every said digit.

For example, the saying and conversion for digit string "3322251":

**Example 1:**

```
Input: n = 1
Output: "1"
Explanation: This is the base case.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: n = 4
Output: "1211"
Explanation:
countAndSay(1) = "1"
countAndSay(2) = say "1" = one 1 = "11"
countAndSay(3) = say "11" = two 1's = "21"
countAndSay(4) = say "21" = one 2 + one 1 = "12" + "11" = "1211"
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= n <= 30`

## Problem Analysis

We need to iterate over n as we want to limit the number of iterations.

There are no similar techniques for solving this problem. It only requires careful programming logic.

## Solutions

### Nominal

This function generates the n-th term of the count-and-say sequence by using a loop that iterates n-1 times. On each iteration, it starts with the previous term of the sequence and generates the next term by iterating through the characters of the previous term, counting the number of consecutive occurrences of each character, and appending that count and the character to the next term.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="CountAndSay.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/38-CountAndSay/CountAndSay.js"
    `

The time complexity of this function is $O(n*m)$ where n is the number of terms to generate and m is the length of the previous term.
The space complexity of this function is $O(m)$ where m is the length of the previous term, because it stores the current term and next term at any given iteration, which would add up to m.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-and-say/)
