---
tags:
  - Medium
  - Arrays
  - Recursion
---

# 38. Count and Say

[TOC]

Given an array of distinct integers candidates and a target integer target, return a list of all unique combinations of candidates where the chosen numbers sum to target. You may return the combinations in any order.

The same number may be chosen from candidates an unlimited number of times. Two combinations are unique if the frequency of at least one of the chosen numbers is different.

The test cases are generated such that the number of unique combinations that sum up to target is less than 150 combinations for the given input.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: candidates = [2,3,6,7], target = 7
Output: [[2,2,3],[7]]
Explanation:
2 and 3 are candidates, and 2 + 2 + 3 = 7. Note that 2 can be used multiple times.
7 is a candidate, and 7 = 7.
These are the only two combinations.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: candidates = [2,3,5], target = 8
Output: [[2,2,2,2],[2,3,3],[3,5]]
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: candidates = [2], target = 1
Output: []
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= candidates.length <= 30`
* `2 <= candidates[i] <= 40`
* `1 <= target <= 40`

## Problem Analysis

Since we can use a number multiple times we can have a function that checks each number and tries to add it into the sum and checking if we reached the target. Then we can recursively do it for the rest of the numbers.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

A brute force approach to this problem would be to generate all possible combinations of the elements in the candidates array and check each one to see if it sums up to the target. 

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="CombinationSum.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/39-CombinationSum/CombinationSumBrute.js"
    `

This approach would have a time complexity of O(n^m), where n is the size of the candidates array and m is the number of elements in each combination.

### Recursive

This function uses a recursive approach, it will start with a empty current array, and an empty current sum, and it will start from the first element of the candidates array. It will add the element to the current sum, and push it to the current array. Then it will call the function again by passing the next index, this way it will check all the possible combinations.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="CombinationSum.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/39-CombinationSum/CombinationSumRecursion.js"
    `

The time complexity of this function is O(2^n), where n is the size of the candidates array, since for each element in the array, it has two options: choose it or not choose it.
The space complexity is O(n) , since at worst case the size of the stack would be the same as the size of the candidates array.


## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/)
