---
tags:
  - Medium
  - Arrays
  - Recursion
  - Backtrack
---

# 40. Combination Sum 2

[TOC]

Given a collection of candidate numbers (candidates) and a target number (target), find all unique combinations in candidates where the candidate numbers sum to target.

Each number in candidates may only be used once in the combination.

Note: The solution set must not contain duplicate combinations.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: candidates = [10,1,2,7,6,1,5], target = 8
Output: 
[
[1,1,6],
[1,2,5],
[1,7],
[2,6]
]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: candidates = [2,5,2,1,2], target = 5
Output: 
[
[1,2,2],
[5]
]
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= candidates.length <= 100`
* `2 <= candidates[i] <= 50`
* `1 <= target <= 30`

## Problem Analysis

Similar to the previous problem, you will need to use recursion. However this time you cannot use the same candidate twice and you need to return all combinations.

You need to use a stack for backtracking. For example push the candidate into the stack, call the recursion function with that candidate and pop the candidate from the stack. This will ensure convering all possible combinations.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

A brute force approach to finding all unique combinations of candidates that sum up to target, where each number in candidates can only be used once, would be to generate all possible subsets of candidates, and then check each subset to see if it sums to the target and whether it's unique.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="CombinationSum2.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/40-CombinationSum2/CombinationSum2Brute.js"
    `

The time complexity of this function is O(2^n*nlogn) where n is the size of the candidates array, since for each element in the array it has two options: choose it or not choose it, and it takes O(nlogn) to sort each subset.
The space complexity is also O(2^n) , since at worst case the size of the subsets would be 2^n.

### Backtracking

In this implementation, the function first sorts the candidates array, and then it uses a recursive approach similar to previous implementation, but now it starts from the next element (i+1) instead of from the current one, in this way it ensures that each number is used only once.

Also it has an additional check, that compares the current element with the previous one, if they are equal, it skips this element. This step is necessary to avoid duplicate combinations, since the array is sorted, if two elements are equal, they will be consecutive, so it's enough to check the current element with the previous one.

??? Show "Solution"
`js title="CombinationSum2.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/40-CombinationSum2/CombinationSum2Recursion.js"
    `

The time complexity of this function is O(n * 2^n) where n is the size of the candidates array, since for each element in the array it has two options: choose it or not choose it, but since it's also sorting the array before, it takes O(nlogn) for sorting, so the total time complexity is O(nlogn + n*2^n)
The space complexity is O(n) , since at worst case the size of the stack would be the same as the size of the candidates array.


## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-ii/)
