---
tags:
  - Array
  - Math
  - Medium
---

# 11. Container With Most Water

[TOC]

You are given an integer array height of length n. There are n vertical lines drawn such that the two endpoints of the ith line are `(i, 0)` and `(i, height[i])`.

Find two lines that together with the x-axis form a container, such that the container contains the most water.

Return the maximum amount of water a container can store.


**Note:**

Notice that you may not slant the container.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: height = [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]
Output: 49
Explanation: The above vertical lines are represented by array [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]. In this case, the max area of water (blue section) the container can contain is 49.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: height = [1,1]
Output: 1
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `n == height.length`
* `2 <= n <= 105`
* `0 <= height[i] <= 104`
```

## Problem Analysis

To calculate the max area of water in a rectangle you need to multiply the `base*height`. Given that we have the heights array, this calculation is trivial and assuming that we use Cartesian coordinates.

Different Rectangles have different sizes. We need to find the right combination of `base*height` so that the container has the most water. If two walls at indices `i`, `j` have different heights then the water will reside the one with the shorter wall, as the rest spills over.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

The brute force approach to this problem involves checking every possible pair of lines and calculating the maximum water that can be stored between them. This approach has a time complexity of $O(n^2)$, since we need to iterate through the array twice for each pair of lines.

??? Show "Solution"
    ```js title="ContainerWithMostWater.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/11-ContainerWithMostWater/ContainerWithMostWaterBrute.js"
    ```

This solution is much less efficient than the two-pointer approach, since it has a time complexity of $O(n^2)$. It should only be used if the input size is very small or if the two-pointer approach is not feasible for some reason.

### Using Two pointers

To solve this problem, we can use a two-pointer approach. We will initialize two pointers, left and right, to the first and last indices of the array, respectively. Then, we will calculate the maximum water that can be stored between these two lines at each step. At each step, we will move the pointer with the shorter height towards the center of the array, since a taller container will always be able to store more water. If we were to do the opposite then we would use the smaller container and thus lose valuable storage.

??? Show "Solution"
    ```js title="ContainerWithMostWater.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/11-ContainerWithMostWater/ContainerWithMostWaterTwoPointer.js"
    ```

This solution has a time complexity of $O(n)$ and a space complexity of $O(1)$, since we only use a constant amount of additional space.


## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

* Using [two pointers](/techniques/#4-using-two-pointers-to-iterate-over-an-array) to calculate a max value.

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/container-with-most-water/)
