---
tags:
  - Integers
  - Medium
  - Math
---

# 12. Integer to Roman

[TOC]

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I, V, X, L, C, D and M`.

```
Symbol       Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000
```

For example, 2 is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two one's added together. 12 is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number 27 is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX + V + II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as IV. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as IX. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- I can be placed before V (5) and X (10) to make 4 and 9.
- X can be placed before L (50) and C (100) to make 40 and 90.
- C can be placed before D (500) and M (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given an integer, convert it to a roman numeral.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: num = 3
Output: "III"
Explanation: 3 is represented as 3 ones.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: num = 58
Output: "LVIII"
Explanation: L = 50, V = 5, III = 3.
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: num = 1994
Output: "MCMXCIV"
Explanation: M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.
```

**Constraints:**

```
1 <= num <= 3999
```

## Problem Analysis

Because the way Roman Numerals are constructed, the most obvious way to convert an integer to a roman is by creating the lookup table for Roman numerals and starting with the largest symbol start substracting it from the original integer until the symbol is smaller than its current value. For example 1000 is `M`

So if `num = 1500` then on the first iteration: `num = 1500 - 1000`, `res=M`
And since `num < 1000` we now use the next symbol that fits `D`. So: `num = 500 - 5000`, `res=MD`

Since `num=0` then the result will be: `MD`

## Solutions

### Using Math

Based on the above analysis we define a function that uses a lookup table to store the mapping between integer values and Roman numerals. It iterates through the values in the lookup table, starting with the largest, and adds the corresponding Roman numeral to the result string while num is greater than or equal to the value.

??? Show "Solution using Maths"
`js title="IntegerToRoman.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/12-IntegerToRoman/IntegerToRoman.js"
    `

This solution has a time complexity of `O(n)` and a space complexity of `O(1)`, since we only use a constant amount of additional space.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-to-roman/)
