---
tags:
  - Integers
  - Easy
  - Math
---

# 12. Integer to Roman

[TOC]

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I, V, X, L, C, D and M`.

```
Symbol       Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000
```

For example, 2 is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two one's added together. 12 is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number 27 is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX + V + II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as IV. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as IX. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- I can be placed before V (5) and X (10) to make 4 and 9.
- X can be placed before L (50) and C (100) to make 40 and 90.
- C can be placed before D (500) and M (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "III"
Output: 3
Explanation: III = 3.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "LVIII"
Output: 58
Explanation: L = 50, V= 5, III = 3.
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: s = "MCMXCIV"
Output: 1994
Explanation: M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= s.length <= 15`
* s contains only the characters `('I', 'V', 'X', 'L', 'C', 'D', 'M')`
```

## Problem Analysis

Converting a Roman to Integer is more straightforward than the opposite. We just iterate over each character and add or subtract its corresponding value to the result. If the next character has a greater value that the current character then we subtract its corresponding value. Otherwise we add it to the result.

For example, if `r=IV` then `curr=I`,`next=V` so the result is `res=-1`. Next is `curr=V`,`next=null` so the result is `res=-1+5=4`. This is the final number.

## Solutions

### Using Math

This function uses a map object to associate each Roman numeral with its corresponding integer value. It then iterates through the characters in the input string and adds or subtracts the values as appropriate according to the rules for converting Roman numerals to integers.

??? Show "Solution using Maths"
    ```js title="RomanToInteger.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/13-RomanToInteger/RomanToInteger.js"
    ```

This solution has a time complexity of $O(n)$ and a space complexity of $O(1)$, since we only use a constant amount of additional space.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer/)
