---
tags:
  - String
  - Easy
  - Sorting
---

# 14. Longest Common Prefix

[TOC]

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings.

If there is no common prefix, return an empty string "".

**Example 1:**

```
Input: strs = ["flower","flow","flight"]
Output: "fl"
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: strs = ["dog","racecar","car"]
Output: ""
Explanation: There is no common prefix among the input strings.
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `1 <= strs.length <= 200`
* `0 <= strs[i].length <= 200`
* strs[i] consists of only lowercase English letters.
```

## Problem Analysis

One thing in common for all strings that have common prefix is that they are sorted in groups. For example if two strings out of four strings have a common prefix then when they are sorted, they will be clustered close to each other. This gives us an idea of how to approach this problem efficiently. 

Of course another way is to take each string and try to compare it with any other string and find their common prefix.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

This function iterates through the characters in the first string and compares them to the corresponding characters in the other strings. If it finds a character that is different, it returns the longest common prefix. If it reaches the end of the loop, it returns the prefix.

??? Show "Solution using Brute Force"
    ```js title="LongestCommonPrefix.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/14-LongestCommonPrefix/LongestCommonPrefixBrute.js"
    ```

Complexity is $O(n^2)$ as it needs to iterate for each string over the other in pairs.

### Using sorting

This function sorts the array of strings so that it can iterate through them in order. It then compares the characters in the first and last strings, adding any that are the same to the longest common prefix. If it encounters a character that is different, it returns the prefix. If it reaches the end of the loop, it returns the prefix.

??? Show "Solution using Sorting"
    ```js title="LongestCommonPrefix.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/14-LongestCommonPrefix/LongestCommonPrefixSorting.js"
    ```

Complexity now is $O(nlogn)$ because of the sorting.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix)
