---
tags:
  - HashMap
  - Arrays
  - Medium
  - Searching
---

# 15. 3Sum

[TOC]

Given an integer array nums, return all the triplets `[nums[i], nums[j], nums[k]]` such that `i != j, i != k,` and `j != k,` and `nums[i] + nums[j] + nums[k] == 0`.

Notice that the solution set must not contain duplicate triplets.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [-1,0,1,2,-1,-4]
Output: [[-1,-1,2],[-1,0,1]]
Explanation: 
nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = (-1) + 0 + 1 = 0.
nums[1] + nums[2] + nums[4] = 0 + 1 + (-1) = 0.
nums[0] + nums[3] + nums[4] = (-1) + 2 + (-1) = 0.
The distinct triplets are [-1,0,1] and [-1,-1,2].
Notice that the order of the output and the order of the triplets does not matter.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [0,1,1]
Output: []
Explanation: The only possible triplet does not sum up to 0.
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [0,0,0]
Output: [[0,0,0]]
Explanation: The only possible triplet sums up to 0.
```

**Constraints:**

```
* `3 <= nums.length <= 3000`
* `-105 <= nums[i] <= 105`
```

## Problem Analysis

Note that we are given an input array of min 3 numbers which may include same numbers. So we should make sure we ignore duplicates either by hashing or my other means.

You can also try to use 2sum here for each number in the list as the `target-k=0-k=-k`.However you need to make sure you ignore duplicates this way.

There are two ways to approach this problem. Either you brute force over all possible triplet sums and return the result. Or you could just try to be more efficient and sort the numbers first, then take each each number in the sorted array amd try to find the other two that add up to 0 skipping duplicates.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

This function iterates through all possible combinations of three numbers and checks if their sum is 0. If it finds a triplet that sums to 0, it adds it to the result array.

??? Show "Solution using Brute Force"
    ```js title="ThreeSum.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/15-3Sum/3SumBrute.js"
    ```

Complexity is $O(n^3)$ as it needs to iterate over each triplets of strings to check if they add up to a 0. However is quick and easy to understand.

### Using sorting

This function first sorts the array of integers in ascending order. It then iterates through the array and uses a two-pointer technique to find the remaining two numbers that sum to 0 with the current number. It adds any triplets that it finds to the result array and returns the array at the end.

??? Show "Solution using Sorting"
    ```js title="ThreeSum.js"
        --8<-- "solutions/15-3Sum/3SumSorting.js"
    ```

Complexity now is $O(nlogn)$ because of the sorting.
    `

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

* Using [Sorting](/techniques/#5-using-sorting-to-reduce-complexity) to reduce the complexity.
* Using [two pointers](/techniques/#4-using-two-pointers-to-iterate-over-an-array) to find a result.

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/3sum/)
