---
tags:
  - LinkedList
  - Medium
  - Maths
---

# 2. Add Two Numbers

[TOC]

You are given two non-empty linked lists representing two non-negative integers. The digits are stored in reverse order, and each of their nodes contains a single digit. Add the two numbers and return the sum as a linked list.

You may assume the two numbers do not contain any leading zero, except the number 0 itself.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: l1 = [2,4,3], l2 = [5,6,4]
Output: [7,0,8]
Explanation: 342 + 465 = 807.
```
**Example 2:**
```
Input: l1 = [0], l2 = [0]
Output: [0]
```
**Example 3:**
```
Input: l1 = [9,9,9,9,9,9,9], l2 = [9,9,9,9]
Output: [8,9,9,9,0,0,0,1]
```

**Constraints:**

* The number of nodes in each linked list is in the range [1, 100].
* 0 <= Node.val <= 9
* It is guaranteed that the list represents a number that does not have leading zeros.

## Problem Analysis

Note that the provided linked lists are already reversed so you won't have to reverse them.

Looking at the list items you will have to do a typical math addition for each of the input nodes on the same position while making sure the carry bit is propagated.

For example given `l1=[4]`, `l2=[6]` then `l1+l2 % 10 = 10 % 10 = 0` and `carry= 10 / 10 = 1`. So we push `0` into the result first and use the carry bit for the next addition.

Once you run out of items in l1 and l2 you do one final check for the carry bit and add 1 to the result.

## Solutions

There is only one technique here. We first create a result `LinkedList` node and a current `LinkedList` node that points to the current item on the list on each step of the addition.

We check whether we run out of l1, l2 items and add each item on the list one by one.

The following program shows how to implement this approach:

??? Show "Solution"
    ```js title="AddTwoNumbers.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/2-AddTwoNumbers/AddTwoNumbers.js"
    ```

Complexity is `O(n)` When `n` the length of the largest list. `O(m + n)` Space. A temporary linked list is needed to store the output number.

## Additional Thoughts

### What if the provided linked lists are not reversed?

You will have to reverse the input lists first, better doing that on a new list without modifying the existing input ones. Problem [206. Reverse Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list/) deals with this case.

## Related Techniques

* Understand how to iterate over a Linked List [a HashTable](/techniques/#3-understand-the-basics-of-iteration).

## References

* [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/add-two-numbers/)
* [geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/add-two-numbers-represented-by-linked-lists/)