---
tags:
  - Strings
  - Easy
  - Stack
---

# 20. Valid Parentheses

[TOC]

Given a string s containing just the characters '(', ')', '{', '}', '[' and ']', determine if the input string is valid.

An input string is valid if:

Open brackets must be closed by the same type of brackets.

Open brackets must be closed in the correct order.

Every close bracket has a corresponding open bracket of the same type.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "()"
Output: true
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "()[]{}"
Output: true
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: s = "(]"
Output: false
```

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 10^4`
- `s consists of parentheses only '()[]{}'`

## Problem Analysis

You will have to iterate over the whole string but you can return early if you've found an invalid closing parenthesis combination. For example `}` is invalid as you cannot possibly match it later on with another `{` or `}`.

It is helpful if you create a map of `opening => closing` match of parentheses for easier reference.

You can think of this problem as matching parenthesis as last-in-first out. If you find an opening parenthesis type then you are expecting a closing one on a later index. If you finish reading the input string and still have unmatched parenthesis then clearly the result is false.

## Solutions

### Using a Stack

This function uses a stack to store the open brackets as it iterates through the string. If it encounters an open bracket, it pushes it onto the stack. If it encounters a close bracket, it checks if it is the corresponding close bracket for the open bracket at the top of the stack. If the brackets do not match, the function returns false. If the function reaches the end of the string and the stack is empty, it returns true, indicating that all open brackets have been closed.

??? Show "Solution using a Stack"
    ```js title="ValidParenthesis.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/20-ValidParenthesis/ValidParenthesis.js"
    ```

The time and space complexity of the algorithm is $O(n)$ where `n=s.length`.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses)
