---
tags:
  - Arrays
  - Medium
  - Strings
  - Sliding Window
---

# 3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters

[TOC]

Given a string `s`, find the length of the longest 
substring without repeating characters.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: s = "abcabcbb"
Output: 3
Explanation: The answer is "abc", with the length of 3.
```
**Example 2:**
```
Input: s = "bbbbb"
Output: 1
Explanation: The answer is "b", with the length of 1.
```
**Example 3:**

```
Input: s = "pwwkew"
Output: 3
Explanation: The answer is "wke", with the length of 3.
Notice that the answer must be a substring, "pwke" is a subsequence and not a substring.
```

**Constraints:**

0 <= s.length <= 5 * 104
s consists of English letters, digits, symbols and spaces.

## Problem Analysis

Note that you need to scan all the characters of the string as you need to find out the maximum substring answer.

We need at least one variable for keeping the maximum length of the substring. This length would be less than `s.length`.

You should not sort the string as you will mess-up with the order of characters.

Since we need to compare characters that we've seen so far, we could to store the already seen characters in a fast access data structure like a hash table.

## Solutions

### Brute Force

Since we are trying to find a substring within a string with the maximum length of no repeating chars. We can just simply iterate over all available substrings and check if they have repeating characters. Then return the one with the maximum length.

??? Show "Solution using Brute Force"
    ```js title="LongestSubstringNoRepeatingChars.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/3-LongestSubstringNoRepeatingChars/LongestSubstringNoRepeatingCharsBrute.js"
    ```

The time complexity of the algorithm is $O(n^3)+c$ as we do $O(n^2)$ iterations to find the substrings with each costing $O(n)$ to check if they have repeating characters.

### Using a Hashtable

Since we need to compare characters that we've seen so far, we can have a HashMap store the already seen characters as keys and their indices as values. We keep a variable `start` that points to the index of the current substring so far. For each new char in `s` we check if we've seen it and if yes we go back and try to find the next character that is not repeated yet. Then we update `start` to point to that index. On each step we keep track of the max substring so far.

The following program shows how to implement this approach:

??? Show "Solution with HashTable"
    ```js title="LongestSubstringNoRepeatingCharsHashTable.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/3-LongestSubstringNoRepeatingChars/LongestSubstringNoRepeatingCharsHashTable.js"
    ```

The time complexity of the algorithm is $O(2n)+c$ now as we iterate only twice over the same input array. The space complexity is $O(n)$ as we might store the chars in the HashTable while iterating it.

### Using a Sliding window

We can improve the performance of the previous example by just using the HashTable to store the indices of the last seen character instead of their count. Once  we have seen the number, we move the start pointer to position after the last occurrence by jumping ahead to the correct position.

The following program shows how to implement this approach:

??? Show "Solution with Sliding Window"
    ```js title="LongestSubstringNoRepeatingCharsSliding.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/3-LongestSubstringNoRepeatingChars/LongestSubstringNoRepeatingCharsSliding.js"
    ```

The time complexity of the algorithm is $O(n)+c$ now as we iterate only once over the same input array. The space complexity is $O(n)$ as we might store the chars in the HashTable while iterating it.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

* Using [a HashTable](/#2-consider-trading-time-with-space) to trade time with space.

## References

* [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/)
* [geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/length-of-the-longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/)