---
tags:
  - String
  - Medium
---

# 5. Longest Palindromic Substring

[TOC]

Given a string s, return the longest 
palindromic substring in s.

**Note:**

* Only the space character ' ' is considered a whitespace character.
* Do not ignore any characters other than the leading whitespace or the rest of the string after the digits.
 
**Example 1:**
```
Input: s = "babad"
Output: "bab"
Explanation: "aba" is also a valid answer.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: s = "cbbd"
Output: "bb"
```

**Constraints:**

```
0 <= s.length <= 200
```
`s` consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), digits (0-9), ' ', '+', '-', and '.'.

## Problem Analysis

A string is consider palindromic if you can read it in reverse and will produce the same string.

You can check if a string is palindromic by using two pointers on the beginning and the end of the string and check if they are equal. If so then update the pointers until you reach the middle.

You can also start from the center of the string and check the characters left and right of the string until you reach the full string.

Iterating over all possible center characters is what you need to think about when trying to solve this problem.

## Solutions

### Brute force

For a brute force approach to find the longest palindrome in the input string. It does this by iterating through the string and checking for palindromes of all possible lengths centered at each index. For each palindrome, it checks the characters at the left and right sides of the palindrome. If the characters are the same, it updates the longest and start index if the palindrome is longer than the current longest. If the characters are different, it stops checking this palindrome.

??? Show "Brute force Solution"
    ```js title="LongestPalindrome.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/5-LongestPalindrome/LongestPalindromeBrute.js"
    ```

This brute force solution is not very efficient, as it has a time complexity of $O(n^3)$ in the worst case, where `n` is the length of the input string. This means that it can be slow for large inputs.

### Checking around each center character in the string 

Another efficient way is by using a helper function, `expandAroundCenter`, to find palindromes of any length centered at a given index in the input string. The `longestPalindrome` function then iterates through the input string and uses `expandAroundCenter` to find the longest palindrome at each index, and returns the longest one overall.

??? Show "Brute force Solution"
    ```js title="LongestPalindrome.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/5-LongestPalindrome/LongestPalindrome.js"
    ```

This approach takes $O(n^2)$ time complexity and $O(1) space complexity. 

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

* [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/description/)



