---
tags:
  - Arrays
  - Medium
---

# 6. Zigzag Conversion

[TOC]

The string "PAYPALISHIRING" is written in a zigzag pattern on a given number of rows like this: (you may want to display this pattern in a fixed font for better legibility)

```
P   A   H   N
A P L S I I G
Y   I   R
```
And then read line by line: "PAHNAPLSIIGYIR"

Write the code that will take a string and make this conversion given a number of rows:

string convert(string s, int numRows);
 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 3
Output: "PAHNAPLSIIGYIR"
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 4
Output: "PINALSIGYAHRPI"
Explanation:
P     I    N
A   L S  I G
Y A   H R
P     I
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: s = "A", numRows = 1
Output: "A"
```

**Constraints:**

```
1 <= s.length <= 1000
s consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), ',' and '.'.
1 <= numRows <= 1000
```

## Problem Analysis

Note that the algorithm requires creating a 2d array of `numRows`. Each row would have an unknown number of elements but less than the length of the string.

We also need to iterate over the string at least once and push the characters in the result.

Because we need to change indices while we iterating the array, we can use a variable called `direction` that specifies if we are iterating upwards or downwards.

## Solutions

### Row By row

We create numRows buckets that will collect all the characters.
We iterate over each character in the string and push the characters into the appropriate row bucket. We have a variable named `direction` that will change once we reach either the beginning on the end of the `numRows`. 

Finally we join all the resulting arrays together in a string.

The following program shows how to implement this approach:

??? Show "Solution using Row By Row"
    ```js title="ZigZagConversionRowByRow.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/6-ZigZagConversion/ZigZagConversionRowByRow.js"
    ```

The time complexity of the algorithm is $O(n)+c$ where `n==len(s)`. The space complexity is $O(n)$.

### Using a formula

Another not obvious way to look at this problem is trying to determine the formula for each character index in the final result. After some experimentation you may come up with:

* `i = 0 => 0 6 12 = > k( 2 * numRows - 2) = Characters in row 0`

* `i = numRows−1 => 1 5 7 11 13 = > k( 2 * numRows - 2) + numRows - 1 = Characters in row numRows−1`

* `i = 1 => 1 5 7 11 13 = > k( 2 * numRows - 2) + i, (k+1)(2 * numRows−2)−i  = Characters in every other row i`

Where `k=0,1,2,3,...`

This won't be easy to figure out and its almost pointless to spend too much time here, so the most obvious solution is to gow row by row.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

* [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/zigzag-conversion/)
