---
tags:
  - Integers
  - Math
  - Medium
---

# 7. Reverse Integer

[TOC]

Given a signed 32-bit integer x, return x with its digits reversed. If reversing x causes the value to go outside the signed 32-bit integer range `[-2^31, 2^31 - 1]`, then return 0.

**Assume the environment does not allow you to store 64-bit integers (signed or unsigned).**
 
**Example 1:**
```
Input: x = 123
Output: 321
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: x = -123
Output: -321
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: x = 120
Output: 21
```

**Constraints:**

```
-2^31 <= x <= 2^31 - 1
```

## Problem Analysis

Note that if the number is negative then we will have to multiply the result with `-1`. If the number is zero then the result will be zero.

Note that we need to check if the intermediate results fit into the signed 32-bit integer range as well.

You can take the last digit of a number by using `x % 10`.

You can remove the least significant digit of x using `x = Math.floor(x / 10);`

## Solutions

### Using Math

There is only one suitable solution by using math to calculate the reverse of the integer by first handling the special case of 0, which would otherwise be treated as a negative number and flipped incorrectly. It then extracts the sign of the input number and reverses the digits of the number, ignoring the sign. Once the number is reversed, the function checks if it is within the signed 32-bit integer range and returns 0 if it is not. Finally, the function restores the original sign of the input number and returns the reversed number.

??? Show "Solution using Row By Row"
    ```js title="ReverseInteger.js"
    --8<-- "solutions/7-ReverseInteger/ReverseInteger.js"
    ```

The time complexity of the function is linear, or $O(n)$, where n is the number of digits in the input number. This is because the function performs a constant amount of work for each digit of the input number.

## Additional Thoughts

## Related Techniques

## References

* [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-integer/)
